-xvii.] nous το 1³30 uzon mmm ' 49

valituram esse existimetis. ef. ς 27, “ praeficiendum
putaretiS.”

547. quam praestare, ξω, almost “ guarantee.” cf. inf..
“non utin illius potestate fortunam positam esse dicam ;'’
and 570, “ facile, ut hominem praestare oportet.”

sicut aequum est ,- this depende on timide.

de potestate deorum, “of what is theirs to give ond to
take away?

suit enim profecto, “ for beyond a doubt there was? ·

vad amplitudinem adjuncta ,- οἳ. ς 50, “ ad ceteras
utilitates,..adjungatur.” Amplitudo refers more to ‘⁶ high
position'’ supported by “ influence and resouroes ς’· gloria
to ‘⁸ wide celebrity.”

548. cives assenserint, &a .· note the gradation in the
wordsz assentire, “to agree,’' of equale or superiorsg
obtemperare, “ to comply‚” of inferiore, not subjects;
obedire, “to obey,” of those who have no voice in the
matter: obsecundare, “to assist in carrying out‚'’ “to
favour‚” of “ the wind und weather.'’

proprium ac perpetuum sit ,⁰ cf. sup. §323 and Virg.
Ecl. vu. 31.

salutis.- this is a favourite word of Cicer03 “sufetis’'
does not often answer to it‚—rather “existence,'’ “ wel-
fare‚” “preservation of the actual position of a person or
thing.”

sicuti facitis goes after debetis in our order.

549. He here concludes the positive part of his speech,
having exhausted the three heads into which he divided
it at first: now he takes up objections,

XVII. 550. Is erat deligendus .· as we say, “had he been
in Rome, he was the man to choose.’' The absolute pro-
priety of the action is more vividly expressed thu83 cf.

E

